Hello and welcome to the section on making games for Android this is going to be a really fun section.
I enjoyed it.
I like it personally because I think it's fun to work with all the images that comes with games also
like the math and the physics side that comes with that.
Be alerted if you're not a huge math fan you might find this a little bit uncomfortable but the app
that we're going to be making or rather the game that we're going to be making in a section is called
coin man and the idea is we have this little coin dude.
He's running along the bottom the screen any time we tap on the screen we can make coin man jump up
and grab some coins are going to be floating across the screen.
Now there's also going to be some bombs that every once in awhile are flowing across the screen and
if coin man accidently hits one of those well then he loses the game.
And your score is essentially stopped and then you know you can start the game back up.
But that's what we're moving towards to build.
So we're going to be using this awesome gaming library called lib GDX So go to lib GDX.
Not bad logic games.
Com.
This is where we can download this gaming platform to allow us to make this game.
So we're going to go ahead and just hit download here.
We want to click on download the setup app and this is going to download a java file so because we already
got Java installed on our computer we're going to have no issues here so I'll just go ahead and open
up this file.
And as I say that will have no issues.
The only issue that you can have is if security gets in the way so I'm going to go on my Mac and say
yes to this if you don't know how to do this you can go to your system preferences and you're going
to go over to security and click this to enter in your password and then now when we go to open this
we're going to say open anyways allow us to open that java file.
OK.
So this is going to help us set up our game.
So go ahead and give it some sort of name.
I'm going to call this coin man as far as package goes.
Go ahead call us whatever you want.
I'm going to do something like Comet Zappy code coign man game.
And then for the game class this has to be all one word to capitalize the first letter.
This is like making a class in Java.
So I'm going to call this capital coin.
No space man.
All right.
The next thing that we need is where it is that we want to save this so I'm going to go ahead and just
put this on the desktop for the time being.
So go ahead and move that there.
And also for the Android SDK if we go ahead and open up Android studio it will tell us where the path
to our SDK is.
So all that's opening up as far as subprojects go what's cool about this lib digi x is it can work for
iOS schemes.
Desktop you of all but for us we just want it to be working for Android so we're going to uncheck everything
else.
Leave box to de-selected but don't have anything else selected there.
Now here with Android studio if we go to its preferences if we go under appearance and behavior system
settings Android SDK up at the top here it's going to list out where your SDK is on your machine so
wherever you have this just go ahead and copy it and paste it exactly here into this box.
And with this we're going to go ahead and hit generate So was going to say hey you've got a more advanced
version.
Yes.
Go ahead say yes say yes to this as well.
And the saying The destination is not empty.
You want to overwrite you.
So this we're going to say no so we want to actually put a folder on our desktops.
Let's make a new folder called coin man.
So we'll go ahead and use that.
And now let's do this one more time.
So this will go through creating this project this is going to take a little bit of time but it's actually
going to create an android studio project for us which then we can you know open up and start editing
code for us so we'll just go ahead and give it a second here to finish up and look at that.
It is all finished.
So once we have that we're going to come back to android studio here and we're going to open an existing
project.
And this is where I want to go straight to our desktop and open up coin case so we'll go ahead and give
this a second to load up here.
The sort of default version that they start off with is just sort of a basic version of a game.
I mean there's really no game mechanics I mean it's just like a red background with their logo there.
But it's least it's a starting point and they're going to have all the right files in the right places
so that's going to be nice for us.
So as soon as this opens up let's see we're asking to upgrade here yes let's go ahead and update that
and give that a second to load there.
So once that finishes we want to go ahead and hit our run button here so that we can get our emulator
up and running as quickly as possible because it's going to take some time to open up.
So we'll go ahead and get that moving.
Let me go ahead and just walk you through what we have here.
So there's actually two projects that you're going to see here where we'll write all her code is inside
of this core and if we go down to coin man here double click on this.
This is I mean ninety nine percent of the time is going to be spent right here getting everything set
up.
Even all the visual stuff at all happens via code right here.
And then up here this android project really all that we're going to work with over here is we're going
to be adding some images to this asset folder here.
So they included one called Bad logic.
This is you know their logo and you're going to see this inside of the example app that's going to come
up here in a second.
But just know between these two places this coin man file inside of core this is where we're going to
spend 99 percent of our time.
And then a little bit of time moving some assets here inside of the Android side of things.
So what's going on here.
Well there's three main functions inside of a game and they create render and dispose.
So create is called when you open it up for the very first time and sort of get your game ready to go
any things you only want to do one time.
Now render this is a really special method because this gets run over and over and over and over until
you finish the game which eventually at some point this Dispose is going to be called.
I'll be honest with our game this Dispose is never going to be called because this is it.
You know if you want at some point and the game and sort of start a new one but I mean we're going to
do that in a way that we don't even have to do this so don't worry too much about this dispose function.
I mean really it's this create where we set things up for the first time in this render where we're
really going to spend our time.
So right now in the create this batch this is sort of the starting point for app we use this batch called
sprite batch to draw everything to the screen.
I know it's a little bit weird to say that you're drawing something to the screen but essentially putting
something visually on the screen.
So any time you work at bats that means we're putting something on the screen then we're creating this
thing called an image which is the texture.
So textures are created from images I believe you can also make textures with solid colors but we'll
just be working with images.
And then here inside the render we're basically saying hey we're going to go ahead and make a background
color here it's going to be a red one.
And then we're going to draw this image onto the screen again drawing is basically showing.
So go ahead and open up our emulator here.
Let's get this opened up.
And here comes our app and there you can see the light.
It's not even in the correct position but at least we got to opening there's that red background and
the image showing up.
So we do have a little bit of work to do here but at least we've got the project up and running in the
next one we'll start creating this game.